Honors Reflection 3
        One of the clubs I found interest in would be the ROAR Club.  ROAR stands for Reaching Out For Animal Rights.  This club is about walking the dogs around Guilford campus, giving them treats, and lots of love from the shelter.  The dogs can range from a puppy to any age.  Almost every Saturday, there is a walk that is typically held from 9:30am to 11:30am.  These dogs are from the shelter and never get toys, treats, or love without our help.  This club makes a big difference when it comes to these dogs' lives.  All the members who are part of the club tell me the same reason why they are a part of this club.  The reason behind this is that they want to help give back to these dogs who have not gotten the chance at a happy forever home.  I was very interested in this club for many reasons.  The first reason is I’m a dog person.  The second reason is because I wanted to make a difference in these dogs' lives.  It is not fair for them to grow up in a shelter with no love or affection from anyone.  I used to see those commercials on tv about these dogs being on the streets and trying to survive on their own and it makes me so sad.   The third reason is that no dog deserves to be on the street or in the shelter.   I feel terrible for these animals and I wish I could give them all a home.  During the last ROAR walk last Saturday, the shelter gave us a few puppies.   I was able to play with the puppies and walk them.  Giving them as much love and affection as I can is the best thing I can do.  I’m happy I can at least give them some love before they go back to the shelter.  Something I learned about myself as an individual is I care so much about these dogs and I have such a big heart.  In addition, something I learned from this community is that giving back and coming together when needed is really important.  The ROAR community comes together to help these sheltered animals have a few happy moments in their lives.  Within the club, while we have our walks on Saturday’s we take pictures of these dogs which could potentially help them get adopted. The community comes together and puts this on to help try and get these dogs adopted, but as well as give them some happy memories other than being in the shelter.  Eventually, I hope all of these dogs find a forever happy home with the help of the ROAR club.