Kevin Buikpor and Nicole Gumula
CTIS 210 Intro to Comp Prog
Professor Rob Whitnell 
12 December 2022
Final Project Description
Our final project followed the option 3 criteria according to the final project specifications document. We will rewrite a programmer's code with our own understanding of the program in comments, change as much as we can the variables name and the classes names to an understandable naming system. We will also extend the program to a useful and appealing Graphic User Interface (GUI).  Our GUI will have a pop up image at the end that will say “Thank you” and have an image of Bank of America for about five seconds and then disappear.  We will use the code from this following link.  Just like in the video, we will have five different classes.  Within each class, they will all represent different things.  The first class would be User.  The second class would be Account. The third class would be Transaction.  The fourth class would be Bank. The last and fifth class would be ATM.  Our project will be for future ATM’s.  The ATM will obviously be able to distribute the amount asked for, however it will be able to transfer money to different accounts without physically having to be able to take the money and put it back into an account.  This project will cover all the basic concepts we have seen so far in our programming class such as the printing system (println), the declaration, instantiation of variables and different classes and more. Our construction plan will be to gradually implement and rewrite the programs by commenting on our changes and contribution to the program. This program is designed to be an ATM simple banking system. Thinking as we usually go to the ATM in real life, you will have to enter your card and enter your pin. Once those have been validated by the bank you will move forward to process the kind of operation you are willing to do.  Our bank’s name is called “Bank of America.”  In this program, our user is Rob Whitnell, and the pin is 1234.  There will be two accounts.  There will be a savings and checking account. When going up to the ATM banking system, you will see “Welcome to Bank of America”, then you will have to enter the User ID.  Once you enter the User ID you will see Rob’s account summary in both the savings and checking accounts, and will be told “Welcome Rob, what would you like to do.”  There will be five options that will be given: show account transaction history, withdraw, deposit, transfer, and quit. You will then enter your choice with one of the numbers out of five.  Once you select which choice you would like it will then ask “Enter the number (1-2) of the account to transfer from.” When entering account 1 or 2, you will then be asked “Enter the amount to transfer.” After the amount to transfer is inputed, you will be asked for a memo.  For example,  if you deposit $150.50 for the memo you can say it is a gift from mom.  When you press enter, the account summary will then appear on the screen. The balance will be seen in the account that was selected.   However, if you want to do a transfer, you will enter the choice 4 on the screen and then choose which account you would like to transfer money into.  If you wanted to transfer from checking to savings, you would enter the number 2 and then 1. You will then input the amount you would like to transfer.  Back to the example above, you can say $50.  You then will have your account summary appear with both balances in your checking and savings account on the screen.  In addition, if you want to look at the transaction history of your checking account, you would input the number 1 (account transaction history) and then enter the account number which in this case would be 2 for checking account.  The transaction history for your checking account will then appear on the screen.  It will give you the account number, as well as the date and time of the transaction.  When doing a withdraw with this program, you would enter the number 2 when choosing out of the five options.  Then you would enter which account you would like to withdraw from.  Either account 1 which is your savings or account 2 which is your checking.  Using the example from before, you can select 2 (checking account).  You would then input the amount you would like to withdraw.  In this case, you can say $30 and enter the memo for the withdraw. When you are all finished, you then would select number 5 which is quit.  When inputting number 5, you will see a window pop up with an image that says “Thank you” and have an image of our bank for about five seconds.  Once the five seconds are up, the screen will disappear.  You will be taken back to the “Welcome to Bank of America” screen, then the next person can input their pin to get into their accounts. . Throughout our process in writing this program, I think the biggest challenge was how time consuming our program was.  Our video was a little over two hours long, so every time new codes were written we had to pause the video to add the codes to our program which took much longer than the two hours.   Because the video was so long and moving fast, there were some errors that were made that were not seen at first until we had to rewatch the video to make sure everything was correct and get a running program.  One of the problems we encountered while making the program was we had four accounts instead of two.  We had two savings and two checking, now we have just one savings and checking account for Rob to choose from.  Another problem we had encountered was when we would choose one of the five options and enter the amount, then we would have to enter the account to transfer to and it would ask that two times when that was not supposed to occur.  We only wanted to do one of the options and not transfer all the time.  We had a small error in our code.  Our error was in the ATM class, we did not have a break under case three and four. When adding the break; we were able to fix the error and not have to choose to transfer after picking one of the four options.   Another problem we came across when doing our project is when we were trying to have our GUI pop up that says “Thank you” and an image of our bank after pressing exit (number 5 option).  We struggled on getting the image to show up and ended up having to ask Rob for assistance. We succeeded in having the Jframe pops-up as we were expecting(close after 5 seconds). Rob gave us some assistance and said “you've built the endPanel class correctly, and you've instantiated it correctly in ATM.java. The next step is to add that endPanel object to the JFrame object. You can do that with these lines below line 310 in ATM.java (the line where you instantiate closePanel):          setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE); getContentPane().add(closePanel); What you'll then find is that your image is so large that you only see a small part of it. I'd recommend making the window, the panel, and the label larger and the image somewhat smaller so that you can see the entire image.”  We ended up following his instructions and were able to create a running program with the GUI.  Nicole and Kevin both split the video time when adding the coding to our own project.  However,  Kevin did more of building the GUI and Nicole worked more on the project description.  We both communicated with one another on if we had any problems while coding or splitting the other part of the work.  We met up and worked on the project together for a couple of nights to get a running complex working project.  Thanks for everything professor Rob. 
The next excerpts will be part of my english classes in the past to make 2000 words.  The thesis idea of Chen and Murthy’s text is about the impacts and effects of climate change.  Climate change is the greatest public health challenge facing communities around the world. There are a lot of examples and evidence throughout the text to help make their stories more credible.  For example, on page 312, the second paragraph states, “A report by the global insurance group Munich RE found that the Camp Fire was the costliest natural disaster in the world in 2018 at $16.5 billion.  Their 16 million customers will see rate increases to pay for costly court-ordered wildfire prevention work, including clearing power lines from the branches of an estimated 120 million trees.”  There are two stories regarding the future based on climate change.  The first story is about greenhouse gas emissions and the consequences on our health as well as way of life.  The second story focuses mainly on how innovations will help our economy, the future, and mitigate these dangers.  One piece of evidence that I think they provided to persuade us that we should be more optimistic in fighting climate change would be “Now, for the first time, new renewable energy has become cheaper than existing coal in the U.S. Consumers are choosing sustainable products at a higher rate each year.  Even Royal Dutch Shell, the largest oil company in the world, is responding to shareholder pressure by looking to renewables and energy efficiency in transportation.”  I think the main reason for this piece of evidence is to help persuade others to do the same and that it will have a positive impact on the environment and the economy. It focuses more on how small or large innovations will help the future of the environment, economy, and mitigate these dangers.   I think I agree with both evidence and the essay because it helps persuade the reader and everyone to figure out small or large innovations that will help the overall future.  It expresses how climate change is a real issue that needs to be addressed. Everyone can have their own impact in finding a way to help the environment and economy due to climate change.  There are so many things that we can do to help limit climate change, but we have to start now with the solutions before it grows into a much bigger problem.  Here is another excerpt from my honors class in the fall to make 2000 words.  One of the clubs I found interest in would be the ROAR Club.  ROAR stands for Reaching Out For Animal Rights.  This club is about walking the dogs around Guilford campus, giving them treats, and lots of love from the shelter.  The dogs can range from a puppy to any age.  Almost every Saturday, there is a walk that is typically held from 9:30am to 11:30am.  These dogs are from the shelter and never get toys, treats, or love without our help.  This club makes a big difference when it comes to these dogs' lives.  All the members who are part of the club tell me the same reason why they are a part of this club.  The reason behind this is that they want to help give back to these dogs who have not gotten the chance at a happy forever home.  I was very interested in this club for many reasons.  The first reason is I’m a dog person.  The second reason is because I wanted to make a difference in these dogs' lives.  It is not fair for them to grow up in a shelter with no love or affection from anyone.  I used to see those commercials on tv about these dogs being on the streets and trying to survive on their own and it makes me so sad.   The third reason is that no dog deserves to be on the street or in the shelter.   I feel terrible for these animals and I wish I could give them all a home.  During the last ROAR walk last Saturday, the shelter gave us a few puppies.   I was able to play with the puppies and walk them.  Giving them as much love and affection as I can is the best thing I can do.  I’m happy I can at least give them some love before they go back to the shelter.  Something I learned about myself as an individual is I care so much about these dogs and I have such a big heart.  In addition, something I learned from this community is that giving back and coming together when needed is really important.  The ROAR community comes together to help these sheltered animals have a few happy moments in their lives.  Within the club, while we have our walks on Saturday’s we take pictures of these dogs which could potentially help them get adopted. The community comes together and puts this on to help try and get these dogs adopted, but as well as give them some happy memories other than being in the shelter.  Eventually, I hope all of these dogs find a forever happy home with the help of the ROAR club.